# Portfolio for Data Science
Repository containing portfolio of data science projects completed by me for academic (PGP Data Science). Presented in the form of Python Notebooks

## Contents

- ### Capstone Projects

	- [Predicting one has diabetics or not](https://github.com/sayarsamanta/Data-Science-Projects/blob/main/Healthcare%20Diabetics/healthcare_pgp_sayar_samanta.ipynb): NIDDK (National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases) research creates knowledge about and treatments for the most chronic, costly, and consequential diseases.The dataset used in this project is originally from NIDDK. The objective is to predict whether or not a patient has diabetes, based on certain diagnostic measurements included in the dataset.
	- [Customer segmentation using RFM and Cohort analysis](https://github.com/sayarsamanta/Data-Science-Projects/blob/main/Retail%20Analysys/retail_sayar_pgp_capstone.ipynb): It is a critical requirement for business to understand the value derived from a customer. RFM is a method used for analyzing customer value.Customer segmentation is the practice of segregating the customer base into groups of individuals based on some common characteristics such as age, gender, interests, and spending habits.Perform customer segmentation using RFM analysis. The resulting segments can be ordered from most valuable (highest recency, frequency, and value) to least valuable (lowest recency, frequency, and value).

	_Tools: scikit-learn, Pandas, Seaborn, Matplotlib, Tableau

- ### Machine Learning Projects
	- [Amazon movie recommendation for user](https://github.com/sayarsamanta/Data-Science-Projects/blob/main/Amazon%20Recommendation/RecommendationExample.ipynb): Building user-based recommendation model for Amazon.The dataset provided contains movie reviews given by Amazon customers. Reviews were given between May 1996 and July 2014.Some of the movies hadn’t been watched and therefore, are not rated by the users. Netflix would like to take this as an opportunity and build a machine learning recommendation algorithm which provides the ratings for each of the users.
 	- [Mercedes-Benz Greener Manufacturing](https://github.com/sayarsamanta/Data-Science-Projects/blob/main/Mercedes%20Benz/Mercedes-Benz%20Greener%20Manufacturing%20Sayar%20Samanta.ipynb): Reduce the time a Mercedes-Benz spends on the test bench.We are required to reduce the time that cars spend on the test bench. Others will work with a dataset representing different permutations of features in a Mercedes-Benz car to predict the time it takes to pass testing. Optimal algorithms will contribute to faster testing, resulting in lower carbon dioxide emissions without reducing Mercedes-Benz’s standards.
 	- [Review Project Analysis](https://github.com/sayarsamanta/Data-Science-Projects/blob/main/Review%20Project%20Analysis/K8ReviewLDA_Sayar_Samanta.ipynb):
Help a leading mobile brand understand the voice of the customer by analyzing the reviews of their product on Amazon and the topics that customers are talking about. We will perform topic modeling on specific parts of speech. We’ll finally interpret the emerging topics.A popular mobile phone brand, Lenovo has launched their budget smartphone in the Indian market. The client wants to understand the VOC (voice of the customer) on the product. This will be useful to not just evaluate the current product, but to also get some direction for developing the product pipeline. The client is particularly interested in the different aspects that customers care about. Product reviews by customers on a leading e-commerce site should provide a good view.
	- [Income Qualification](https://github.com/sayarsamanta/Data-Science-Projects/blob/main/Income%20Qualification/Income_Qualification_Sayar_Samanta_2.ipynb):
Identify the level of income qualification needed for the families in Latin America.Many social programs have a hard time ensuring that the right people are given enough aid. It’s tricky when a program focuses on the poorest segment of the population. This segment of the population can’t provide the necessary income and expense records to prove that they qualify.In Latin America, a popular method called Proxy Means Test (PMT) uses an algorithm to verify income qualification. With PMT, agencies use a model that considers a family’s observable household attributes like the material of their walls and ceiling or the assets found in their homes to.
	- [Wikipedia Toxicity](https://github.com/sayarsamanta/Data-Science-Projects/blob/main/Wikipedia%20Toxicity/wikipedia_toxic_comments.ipynb):
Using NLP and machine learning, make a model to identify toxic comments from the Talk edit pages on Wikipedia. Help identify the words that make a comment toxic.Wikipedia continuously strives to help online discussion become more productive and respectful. We as a data scientist at Wikipedia will help Wikipedia to build a predictive model that identifies toxic comments in the discussion and marks them for cleanup by using NLP and machine learning.

Note: This project is not completed yet. Currently I am working on this project. It will be completed soon.


	_Tools: scikit-learn, Pandas, Seaborn, Matplotlib, NLTK, Gensim
